
What is cryptocurrency
A cryptocurrency is just like a digital form of cash.The name cryptocurrency is a combination of cryptography and currency. With cryptography, we use advanced math to secure our funds, making sure that nobody else can spend them.

features of cryptocurrency
Permissionless
Censorship-resistant
A cheap and fast payment method

what is bitcoin?
Amazingly, nobody knows who invented Bitcoin. We only know them by their screen name - Satoshi Nakamoto. A blockchain is just a database.
features of blockchains
The first is that blockchains are append-only. That means that you can only add information - you can't just click on a cell and delete stuff that you've already added, or change it in any way.
The second is that each entry (called a block) in the database is cryptographically linked to the last entry. In plain English, each new entry must contain a sort of digital fingerprint (hash) of the last one.
 consensus algorithm, the system prevents you from spending funds you shouldn't be able to spend.Public-key cryptography ensures that users cannot spend each other’s coins. But there still needs to be a single source of truth that network participants rely on, to be able to determine whether funds have already been spent.

Trading 
One of the most common ways to make sense of the cryptocurrency market is through an approach called technical analysis (TA). Technical analysts look at price history, charts, and other types of market data to find bets that have a good chance of returning a profit.Technical analysis (TA), often referred to as charting, is a type of analysis that aims to predict future market behavior based on previous price action and volume data. le primitive forms of technical analysis appeared in the 17th century Amsterdam and 18th century Japan, the modern TA is often traced back to the work of Charles Dow[he discovered trends).technical analysis indicators can help traders identify existing trends and also provide insightful information into trends that may emerge in the future.

Common TA indicators
1. moving averages he SMA is calculated based on the closing prices of an asset within a set time.he exponential moving average (EMA) is a modified version of the SMA that weights recent closing prices more heavily than the older ones.
2.e relative strength index (RSI), which is part of a class of indicators known as oscillators.oscillators apply mathematical formulas to pricing data and then produce readings that fall within predefined ranges. In the case of the RSI, this range goes from 0 to 100.
3.The Bollinger Bands (BB) indicator is another oscillator-type that is quite popular among traders. The BB indicator consists of two lateral bands that flow around a moving average line. It is used to spot potential overbought and oversold market conditions, as well as to measure market volatility.
4.Another popular example is the moving average convergence divergence (MACD) indicator. The MACD is generated by subtracting two EMAs to create the main line (the MACD line). The first line is then used to generate another EMA, resulting in a second line (known as the signal line). In addition, there is the MACD histogram, which is calculated based on the differences between those two lines.
 fundamental analysis
The fundamental analysis considers that the future performance of an asset is dependent on much more than just historical data. Essentially, FA is a method used to estimate the intrinsic value of a company, business or asset based on a wide range of micro and macroeconomic conditions, such as company management and reputation, market competition, growth rates, and industry health.FA is a method for determining whether an asset is overvalued or not
Market Capitalization

he world of cryptocurrency offers many opportunities to earn passive income. You can basically use your crypto holdings to make more crypto! e.g staking
staking means getting rewards for locking up coins

Guide to Candlestick Charts
ome rely on their gut feeling and make their investments based on their intuition. While this strategy might temporarily work in a bullish market environment, it most likely won’t in the long run. 

What is a candlestick chart?
A candlestick chart is a type of financial chart that graphically represents the price moves of an asset for a given timeframe. As the name suggests, it’s made up of candlesticks, each representing the same amount of time. The candlesticks can represent virtually any period, from seconds to years. 
How do candlestick charts work?
The following price points are needed to create each candlestick:

Open — The first recorded trading price of the asset within that particular timeframe.
High — The highest recorded trading price of the asset within that particular timeframe.
Low — The lowest recorded trading price of the asset within that particular timeframe.
Close — The last recorded trading price of the asset within that particular timeframe.
The distance between the open and close is referred to as the body, while the distance between the body and the high/low is referred to as the wick or shadow. The distance between the high and low of the candle is called the range of the candlestick. 

What candlestick charts don’t tell you
While candlesticks are useful in giving you a general idea of price action, they may not provide all you need for a comprehensive analysis. For instance, candlesticks don’t show in detail what happened in the interval between the open and close, only the distance between the two points (along with the highest and lowest prices).

For example, while the wicks of a candlestick do tell us the high and low of the period, they can't tell us which one happened first. Still, in most charting tools, the timeframe can be changed, allowing traders to zoom into lower timeframes for more details.

andlestick charts can also contain a lot of market noise, especially when charting lower timeframes. The candles can change very quickly, which can make them challenging to interpret.

What Is a Spot Market and How to do Spot Trading?
Spot trading involves directly purchasing or selling financial instruments and assets such as cryptocurrencies, forex, stocks, or bonds. Delivery of the asset is often immediate. Spot trading occurs in spot markets, which are either exchange-based or over-the-counter (directly between traders)
What’s spot trading?
Spot traders try to make profits in the market by purchasing assets and hoping they’ll rise in value. They can sell their assets later on the spot market for a profit when the price increases

What’s the difference between spot markets and futures markets?
We’ve already mentioned that spot markets make instant trades with almost immediate delivery. On the other hand, the futures market has contracts paid for at a future date. A buyer and seller agree to trade a certain amount of goods for a specific price in the future. When the contract matures on the settlement date, the buyer and seller typically come to a cash settlement rather than deliver the asset.

What’s the difference between spot trading and margin trading?
Margin trading is available in some spot markets, but it’s not the same as spot trading. As we previously mentioned, spot trading requires you to fully purchase the asset immediately and take delivery. In contrast, Margin trading lets you borrow funds with interest from a third party, which allows you to enter larger positions. As such, borrowing gives a margin trader the potential for more significant profits. However, it also amplifies the potential losses, so you should be careful not to lose all of your initial investment.

How to spot trade on Binance

Classical Chart Patterns
Flags  flag is an area of consolidation that’s against the direction of the longer-term trend and happens after a sharp price move.Flags may be used to identify the potential continuation of the trend. The volume accompanying the pattern is also important. Ideally, the impulse move should happen on high volume, while the consolidation phase should have lower, decreasing volume.(bull and bear flag )

pennant:Pennants are basically a variant of flags where the area of consolidation has converging trend lines, more akin to a triangle

Triangles
A triangle is a chart pattern that’s characterized by a converging price range that’s typically followed by the continuation of the trend. The triangle itself shows a pause in the underlying trend but may indicate a reversal or a continuation.

The ascending triangle forms when there’s a horizontal resistance area and a rising trend line drawn across a series of higher lows. Essentially, each time the price bounces off the horizontal resistance, the buyers step in at higher prices, creating higher lows. As tension is building at the resistance area, if the price eventually breaks through it, it tends to be followed by a quick spike up with high volume. As such, the ascending triangle is a bullish pattern.
The descending triangle is the inverse of the ascending triangle. It forms when there’s a horizontal support area and a falling trend line drawn across a series of lower highs. In the same way as the ascending triangle, each time price bounces off the horizontal support, sellers step in at lower prices, creating lower highs. Typically, if the price breaks through the horizontal support area, it’s followed by a quick spike down with high volume. This makes it a bearish pattern. 

Wedges
A wedge is drawn by converging trend lines, indicating tightening price action. The trend lines, in this case, show that the highs and lows are either rising or falling at a different rate.
It might mean that a reversal is impending, as the underlying trend is getting weaker. A wedge pattern may be accompanied by decreasing volume, also indicating that the trend might be losing momentum.

The rising wedge is a bearish reversal pattern. It suggests that as the price tightens up, the uptrend is getting weaker and weaker, and may finally break through the lower trend line. 

The falling wedge is a bullish reversal pattern. It indicates that tension is building up as price drops and the trend lines are tightening. A falling wedge often leads to a breakout to the upside with an impulse move.


Double top and double bottom
Double tops and double bottoms are patterns that occur when the market moves in either an “M” or a “W” shape. It’s worth noting that these patterns may be valid even if the relevant price points aren’t exactly the same but close to each other.

Typically, the two low or high points should be accompanied by higher volume than the rest of the pattern.

The double top is a bearish reversal pattern where the price reaches a high two times and it’s unable to break higher on the second attempt. At the same time, the pullback between the two tops should be moderate. The pattern is confirmed once the price breaches the low of the pullback between the two tops.

The double bottom is a bullish reversal pattern where the price holds a low two times and eventually continues with a higher high. Similarly to the double top, the bounce between the two lows should be moderate. The pattern is confirmed once the price reaches a higher high than the top of the bounce between the two lows.

Head and shoulders
The head and shoulders is a bearish reversal pattern with a baseline (neckline) and three peaks. The two lateral peaks should roughly be at the same price level, while the middle peak should be higher than the other two. The pattern is confirmed once the price breaches the neckline support.

Inverse head and shoulders
As the name suggests, this is the opposite of the head and shoulders – and as such, it indicates a bullish reversal. An inverse head and shoulders is formed when the price falls to a lower low in a downtrend, then bounces and finds support at roughly the same level as the first low. The pattern is confirmed once the price breaches the neckline resistance and continues higher.



risk management
No matter how big your portfolio is, you’ll need to exercise proper risk management. Otherwise, you may quickly blow up your account and suffer considerable losses.
How to determine account size
While this may seem like a simple, even redundant step, it’s a valid consideration. Especially when you’re a beginner, it may help to allocate certain parts of your portfolio to different strategies. This way, you can more accurately track the progress you’re making with different strategies, and also reduce the chance of risking too much.

How to determine account risk
The second step is determining your account risk. This involves deciding what percentage of your available capital you’re willing to risk on a single trade. 



The 2% rule
In the traditional financial world, there’s an investing strategy called the 2% rule. According to this rule, a trader shouldn’t risk more than 2% of their account on a single trade. We’ll go over what that means exactly, but first, let’s adjust it to be more suitable for the volatile cryptocurrency markets.
The 2% rule is a strategy suitable for investment styles that typically involve entering only a few, longer-term positions. Also, it’s typically tailored to less volatile instruments than cryptocurrencies. If you’re a more active trader, and especially if you’re starting out, it could be lifesaving to be even more conservative than this. In this case, let’s modify this to be the 1% rule instead.
This rule dictates that you shouldn’t risk more than 1% of your account in a single trade. Does this mean that you only enter trades with 1% of your available capital? Absolutely not! It only means that if your trade idea is wrong, and your stop-loss is hit, you’ll only lose 1% of your account.

